Lord, thank you.
Thank you for your presence with us.
God, you promise that where we gather, you are there in our midst by the power of your Holy Spirit, and we thank you, God, we rely on that promise now, especially as we come to your word.
Lord, your words are, they're often hard.
They're hard to receive into our hearts, our stubborn hearts.
We pray that you would melt those hearts, Lord, so that your spirit
may come into us and may make changes so that we may be conformed to your image, so that we may give you our praise and our honor and the glory that you're due.
God, especially on this day, this time, this season, when we recognize the birth of your Son, you coming into our midst, Lord, may it have a deep and profound impact on us, not just in the way we think, but the way we act and the way we live.
May it be all for your glory,
And this time also for your glory and for our good.
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.
All right, Isaiah chapter seven, verses one through 17.
Isaiah seven, one through 17.
When A has, son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, was king of Judah, king resin of Aram, and peck a son of Ramaliah, king of Israel,
marched up to fight against Jerusalem, but they could not overpower it.
Now, the house of David was told, Aram has allied itself with Ephraim.
So the hearts of Ahaz and his people were shaken, as the trees of the forest are shaken by the wind.
Well, then the Lord said to Isaiah, go out.
You and your son, Shirea Shub, to meet Ahaz at the end of the aqueduct of the upper pool on the road to the launderers' field.
Say to him, be careful.
Keep calm and don't be afraid.
Do not lose heart because of these two smoldering stubs of firewood, because of the fierce anger of resin and arum in of the son of Remaliah.
Arum, ephraim and Remaliah's son have plotted your ruin, saying, let us invade Judah.
Let us tear it apart and divide it among ourselves and make the son of Tbil king over it.
Yet this is what the sovereign Lord says.
It will not take place.
It will not happen.
For the head of Aram is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is only resin.
Within 65 years, Ephraim will be too shattered to be a people.
The head of Ephraim is Syria.
The head of Samaria, the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is only Remaliah's son.
If you do not stand firm in your faith, you will not stand at all.
Again, the Lord spoke to Ahaz.
Ask the Lord your God for a sign, whether in the deepest depths or in the highest heights, but a has said, I will not ask.
I will not put the Lord to the test."
Then Isaiah said, here now, you house of David.
Is it not enough to try the patience of humans?
Will you try the patience of my God also?
Therefore, the Lord himself will give you a sign.
The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and will call him Immanuel.
He will be eating curds and honey when he knows enough to reject the wrong and choose the right.
For before the boy knows enough to reject the wrong and choose the right, the land of the two kings you dread will be laid waste.
The Lord will bring on you and your people.
And on the house of your father at time, unlike any sense, Ephraim broke away from Judah.
He will bring the king of Assyria.
Now we're going to turn to Matthew's Gospel chapter 1.
Matthew chapter one, we'll look at verses 18 through 23.
Matthew chapter one verses 18 through 23.
This is how the birth of Jesus, the Messiah came about.
His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph.
But before they came together, she was found to be pregnant through the Holy Spirit.
Because Joseph, her husband, was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly.
But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins.
All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet.
The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel.
which means God with us.
This is the word of the Lord, can we say?
Thanks be to God.
Emmanuel, God with us.
These are usually words of comfort, but let's stop.
Let's stop and consider what it is that we are saying, God with us.
This is God, the one who is infinitely holy.
The one who has power to not only give life, but also to the power to take it away.
This is God who is just in all of his decrees and his judgments, these judgments to bless, but also these judgments to punish.
God, with us, us, those who are created, those who are completely dependent upon this God.
Those who have rebelled against Him.
Those who have broken promise after promise.
God with us.
It's just something that we truly want.
Then C.S.
Lewis's book, I think it's the fifth book.
The Voyage of the Dawn Tretters.
Anybody read The Voyage of the Dawn Tretter?
Yeah, okay, a couple of people.
The book, The Voyage of the Dontretter, there is a young king.
The young king of Narnia, his name is Caspian, and he has a group, a group that is sailing to the far reaches of the kingdom of Narnia.
They're looking for the seven lords that have been lost.
Now they're traveling to these far reaches of the kingdom that no royalty from Narnia has visited in hundreds of years.
So they don't really know what to find, what to expect.
But they should be expecting that these distant lands are still loyal to the throne, loyal to the king of Narnia.
So, Caspian, along with his group, they are traveling on the Dontrader, they are sailing, and they come to the lone islands.
And they decide that they're going to stop off at the lone islands, that they're going to stretch their legs, they're going to do a little reconnaissance to see what is going on here.
And what this young king of Narnia, Caspian, discovers, it startles him.
And what he finds is that this group, this group of people on the lone islands, they have really taken on the ways of Narnia's enemies, the Calermans.
They are corrupt.
They cannot be trusted.
They have given themselves to the business of slave trading.
Well, King Caspian inquires.
He says, well, what about the leadership here of the lone islands?
Is it faithful to Narnia?
Is it faithful to the crown, to the king of Narnia?
And the person says, well, yes, everything is done in the king's name, as in lip service.
Everything is done in the king's name, but the governor, governor, Gumpus, he would not be very pleased to have a real, live king of Narnia come upon him.
So Caspian.
with his troops in full armor.
They go to the ruler of these islands, Governor Gumpus.
They burst through his castle doors.
They push right through his feeble troops.
and they see Governor Gumpus sitting in a chair with his head down doing work at a table.
These troops, again, they're dressed in full armor.
Two of Caspian's men, they come in, they lift up the table, and they toss the table to have all the pens and the ink and the papers go flying.
And then these two men, they pick up Governor Gumpus from his seat, and they take him off this symbolic throne in Caspian.
takes his seat, and it says that he has his naked sword sitting across his lap.
Ooh, ooh, the visit of the king.
The visit of the real life king, the presence, the physical presence of the king is not a good thing for those who are opposed to his rule.
On our passage this morning, something similar is taking place.
of the Assyrian Empire, this Assyrian war machine is rolling across Mesopotamia.
It is conquering people and conquering lands on its way to Egypt.
And these countries that are to the east of the Mediterranean are next.
Well, two nations, Assyria and the northern kingdom of Israel, they've made an alliance.
They have made a pact.
They are going to come together against the Assyrian Empire.
And they want Judah to join the people of Judah, the king of Judah at this point as A has.
So A has has a decision to make.
He can either join up with this alliance.
These are his enemies.
He can join with Syria.
He can join with the northern kingdom of Israel in this fight against the Assyrian superpower, this empire.
Or he can try to join up with the Assyrians.
with this superpower, he can join forces against his enemies.
He has a decision to make these two options, they aren't great options, but Isaiah the prophet, he steps in and he says, A has, A has, there is a third way.
There is a third way and a better way.
You are the king.
You are the king of Judah.
God has promised himself to protect this people, to protect this land.
You come from the line of David.
You don't have to worry about Syria.
You don't have to worry about Israel.
You don't have to make an alliance with them.
You don't have to make an alliance even with the Assyrian Empire.
The Lord says, be calm.
The Lord says, trust.
The Lord says, wait and do not do anything.
In just a couple of years, Assyria and Northern Israel, they're not gonna be anymore.
They're gonna be laid waste.
Just trust the Lord.
calm and be still.
Oh, Isaiah, he knows the reputation of Ahasa.
This is not a king who follows in the ways of the Lord.
This is a man who does evil in the sight of the Lord.
Isaiah sees Ahas start to waver a little bit, so Isaiah says, well, let the Lord give you a sign.
ask for a sign, anything in the highest heavens above, anything on the earth, anything in all of creation, ask the Lord for a sign, because He is faithful.
The Lord, your God, is faithful to His promises to protect you, to Judah, to the line of David.
He will prove true.
But He has has already made up His mind.
He's already decided to join forces with the superpower of Assyria.
He doesn't want anything to do with God or God's prophet.
This bit about, oh, I don't want to test the Lord.
I don't want to test the Lord by asking for a sign.
This is just lip service.
This is just a show of false humility.
A has already determined that he is going to give his loyalty to the Assyrian Empire.
He's going to give his tribute.
He's going to give himself and his people over to the Assyrian Empire.
He's turned away from the Lord.
Isaiah says, OK. OK, but the Lord is still going to give you a sign.
The Virgin will conceive.
The Virgin will give birth.
to a son and they will call him Immanuel.
Immanuel, God with us.
And for Ahab, the sign of Immanuel, this sign of God with us, of the king coming to his people is not a good thing.
This to Ahab is a threat.
Because what will happen, what Isaiah is prophesying here and a little bit later on, he's saying that there's super power.
that you're aligning God's people with, that you're aligning the land with, that you're aligning the throne with, they're gonna turn on you.
The Lord is going to use the king of Assyria to inflict judgment and punishment and bring shame upon you.
The land is gonna be laid desolate.
This whole bit about was anybody appealed, maybe you thought about cheese curds.
Oh, Culver's, that sounds pretty good.
Cheese curds and honey.
Maybe they're gonna be enjoying some good feasting.
Oh no, this is not a good thing.
She curds and honey.
This is like, hey, all the land is going to be laid waste.
You're not going to have any crops, the vines, the numerous grape vines that were growing up all over the land.
It's just going to be briars and thorns.
You're going to be dependent upon wild honey and any of the milk that comes from the remaining livestock.
Everything is going to be laid desolate.
There are going to be major cracks.
that are going to begin to show in this line of David.
This line that has been promised to rule over Judah for God's people.
God with us, the threat of the king, and the threat of God coming to his people is not good for those who oppose the rule of the king.
But there is hope.
There is promise.
Because with the Lord our God
There is always hope in this section of Isaiah 7.
There's a threat.
A manual God with us is threat.
The Assyrians are going to come.
But within this section, with this expanded section, there's another prophecy of a child.
And Isaiah 9, you know it well, these famous lines for to us,
For to us, remember?
For to us a child is born.
Yes.
And the government will rest upon his shoulders.
And he will be called a wonderful counselor.
He will be called what?
Mighty God, everlasting father and prince of peace.
He will rule on the throne of David.
And his kingdom will have no end.
even though A has has committed himself, has committed Judah, has committed the people of Judah to Assyria, even though he's turned away from the Lord, though God still promises that there will be a light, that Emmanuel, this child will bring light to those who are walking in darkness.
And in Matthew's Gospel, Matthew chapter one right up front, we see the fulfillment.
We see the fulfillment.
When the angel says, we read it earlier, that you, Mary will give birth.
Mary will conceive that she will give birth to a son and you are to name him Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.
And then Matthew says that this, all this happened.
In order to fulfill the promise that was spoken by the prophet that the virgin will conceive and give birth to a son and they will name him a manual.
God with us.
God.
Infinitely holy God.
God who is the power not just to give life but to take life away.
God who is absolutely just in all of his decrees, all of his judgments to not just bless but also to punish.
God with us.
Those who are created, those who are dependent on Him for everything, those who have turned away, those who have rebelled, those who have come up against the King, God with us.
God coming to us, but not against us.
God coming to save us.
God coming to rescue us.
You will name Him Jesus because He will save the people from their sins.
The God coming to us is not something that should cause us fear and panic because we believe and we know that Jesus Christ was sent not to do us harm, but to bring us back to God.
Jesus Christ, mighty God, everlasting Father, was born into our midst to save us.
He comes in grace.
He comes to give Himself.
Because the way that this king rules, that he comes down from his heavenly throne.
He comes down to the poorest of the poor.
He comes down and he gives his life for those who rebelled.
He comes down and gives his life.
Gives up his life, he experiences death so that his people may live.
God with us.
Jesus Christ with us, these are words of hope.
For people who trust these are the words of comfort for those who believe.
God has given his promise.
God has made true on his promise because God is faithful through Jesus Christ to give himself for our salvation.
And all God's people said,
I want you to take a moment, I want you to listen again to the verse from this.
Isaiah prophesies, he tells King Ahaz, if you do not stand firm in your faith, you will not stand at all.
If you do not stand firm in your faith, you will not stand at all.
So I want you to take a minute just to consider where is your trust.
Where is your trust?
Where is your faith?
Do you welcome this king that's been born into our midst?
Do you trust that only in Christ God is for you?
Yes, there is a moment.
There is a time when we say, yes, Lord, I believe that Christ is the Son of God given his life.
But it's not just a one and done.
This is a daily surrendering of our life to his rule and to his lead in our lives.
If you do not stand firm in your faith, you will not stand at all.
Take a moment, just to consider, if you want to write it down in your offerings, where is your trust?
What do you want to offer to the Lord in response to His Word?
That indeed, Emmanuel God with us comes in grace.
He comes in peace because of what Christ has done.
Take a minute to reflect on that.
you to rise once again and bother you in spirit as we sing our song of response.
Angels from the realms of
A couple of things to mention before we go to the Lord in prayer.
I'll be on vacation this coming week, and so if you have need, Pastor Matt will be here.
He'll be preaching on January 4th, or contact your shepherding elder or contact the office if something comes up.
And because of this, we're moving our Lord's Supper celebration from January 4th.
Usually we have it on the first Sunday of the month.
It'll be on the second Sunday, January 11th.
I'm also will continue to keep in prayer the family of Jerry Shafer.
They were able to lay him to rest to celebrate his, celebrate his life, to grieve his passing yesterday.
So we continue to lift up the family in prayer.
Now let's go to the Lord in prayer for our needs and to offer him our praise as well.
One carnit God with the angels we sing and we glorify your name.
We're thankful that you have given to us so much.
You've given us your presence in the world.
You've given us this land and this community in which we live.
You've given us the witness of your church that celebrates your birth around the world.
Today we are especially grateful for the gift of your son who gave up his heavenly home for a manger and a cross
so that we might experience redemption and give that neither spoils nor fades.
With the angels, we also desire peace on earth, a peace that is broader and deeper than the end of war.
And we pray for restoration of this world, for the growth of your kingdom, for reconciliation, for healing, and for renewal.
We bring before you our prayers for the countries of this world, especially for those at war.
We pray for our country and for those who are in authority.
We pray for our state and the local community and those who lead us.
And Lord, we pray for the Universal Church, its mission and all those who minister.
We pray to you for local congregations in Midland and their ministries.
God at Midland Reform Church, we want to learn to live and love like Jesus, your Son, our Lord, and proclaim His name and word indeed in our community.
Bless us with your spirit to do so faithfully.
The Lord, we lift up to you the specific needs of our congregation.
By name we pray for Joey Hinton, K. Bolander, Melody Dirks, Wayne Johnson, all those that are in need who are suffering physical illness or awaiting surgeries,
God, we ask that you would be with the Shafer family.
Thank you that yesterday, they were able to grieve Jerry's death, celebrate the life that he now has with you.
May they continue to find hope and comfort in the promises of your word.
Give especially K strength for the days, the weeks, and the years ahead.
God, we ask that you would be with those who are unable to worship with us, those who are alone this time of the year,
and for those who suffer in silence.
Oh Lord Jesus Christ, you are our light, you are our hope.
We pray that you would give us the strength, give us the boldness, give us the compassion to know and see the darkness of the world and to bring your light into it.
We pray these things in Christ's name, amen.